This litte project sets up a script that will run periodically to check for the presence of devices over Bluetooth. 
The script just logs the presence of the device to a google spreadsheet. However the presence can be used to personalize and trigger automations as needed


Getting setup:
What you'll need
machine
 - running linux This script was developed in a Raspberry Pi 3
 - Python 3 installed. 
 - bluetooth
 - internet connectivity :)


Step 1: Pair bluetooth devices
Put the device whose presence you would like to detect in bluetooth discoverable mode
On the machine that will be running this script, use your bluetooth manager to pair the device

Step 2: Install dependencies
install these packages
bluez
google api client (pip3 install --upgrade google.api-python.client)
gspread (pip3 install gspread)


Step 3: File setup
copy the files from this project into your script's working folder
Open the BT_Device_Presence.py file
replace all instaces of <your working folder> with a path to your script's working folder. Example /home/pi/Documents/Python_Projects/BT_devices
Open devices.csv
enter information for each device whose presence you want to detect. Each row should contain: Device Name, Device BT MAC address, Device Owner
 - Device Name. This is the actual name of the device as seen by your machine when the device is discoverable. You should be able to see this in your machine's bluetooth manager
 - Device MAC address. This too should be available in your machine's bluetooth manager
 - Device owner. This is optional. Not currently used by this script


Step 4: setup access to google spreadsheet
Make sure you have a google drive account where you want to log the presence of your devices
Follow these instructions to get setup with google sheets API: https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/quickstart/python
copy the client_secret,json file to your script's working folder
go to goole drive
in your google drive home folder create a new spreadsheet and call it BT_Device_Presence_Log


You are all setup.


now open a terminal window and run 
python3 <your workingfolder>/BT_Device_Presence.py

If the devices in your devices.csv file are found, you will see each of their names listed twice in the terminal. If the device(s) are not found, you will see the name listed only once in the terminal
You will also see a row per device in your google spreadsheet. It will say 'Found' or 'Not Found' along with the device Name and device MAC address

Now you are all setup to do smart things based on the presence of a bluetooth device by integrating to other services like IFTTT, Alexa, Google home assistant or anything else with a web interface that the python script can talk to

You can automatically disarm your home security system when you come home with your phone in your pocket
Or get Alexa to automatically play your favorite music when you come home
all this without having to have your phone's GPS location constantly being sent to some service in the cloud

have fun!